Our core Java programming tutorial is designed for students and working professionals. Java is an object-oriented, class-based, concurrent, secured and general-purpose computer-programming language. It is a widely used robust technology.
What is Java?

Java is a programming language and a platform. Java is a high level, robust, object-oriented and secure programming language.

Java was developed by Sun Microsystems (which is now the subsidiary of Oracle) in the year 1995. James Gosling is known as the father of Java. Before Java, its name was Oak. Since Oak was already a registered company, so James Gosling and his team changed the name from Oak to Java.

Platform: Any hardware or software environment in which a program runs, is known as a platform. Since Java has a runtime environment (JRE) and API, it is called a platform.
Java Example

Let's have a quick look at Java programming example. A detailed description of Hello Java example is available in next page.

Simple.java

    class Simple{  
        public static void main(String args[]){  
         System.out.println("Hello Java");  
        }  
    }  

Test it Now
Application

According to Sun, 3 billion devices run Java. There are many devices where Java is currently used. Some of them are as follows:

    Desktop Applications such as acrobat reader, media player, antivirus, etc.
    Web Applications such as irctc.co.in, javatpoint.com, etc.
    Enterprise Applications such as banking applications.
    Mobile
    Embedded System
    Smart Card
    Robotics
    Games, etc.

Types of Java Applications

There are mainly 4 types of applications that can be created using Java programming:
1) Standalone Application

Standalone applications are also known as desktop applications or window-based applications. These are traditional software that we need to install on every machine. Examples of standalone application are Media player, antivirus, etc. AWT and Swing are used in Java for creating standalone applications.
2) Web Application

An application that runs on the server side and creates a dynamic page is called a web application. Currently, Servlet, JSP, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSF, etc. technologies are used for creating web applications in Java.