3) Enterprise Application

An application that is distributed in nature, such as banking applications, etc. is called an enterprise application. It has advantages like high-level security, load balancing, and clustering. In Java, EJB is used for creating enterprise applications.
4) Mobile Application

An application which is created for mobile devices is called a mobile application. Currently, Android and Java ME are used for creating mobile applications.
Java Platforms / Editions

There are 4 platforms or editions of Java:
1) Java SE (Java Standard Edition)

It is a Java programming platform. It includes Java programming APIs such as java.lang, java.io, java.net, java.util, java.sql, java.math etc. It includes core topics like OOPs, String, Regex, Exception, Inner classes, Multithreading, I/O Stream, Networking, AWT, Swing, Reflection, Collection, etc.
2) Java EE (Java Enterprise Edition)

It is an enterprise platform that is mainly used to develop web and enterprise applications. It is built on top of the Java SE platform. It includes topics like Servlet, JSP, Web Services, EJB, JPA, etc.
3) Java ME (Java Micro Edition)

It is a micro platform that is dedicated to mobile applications.
4) JavaFX

It is used to develop rich internet applications. It uses a lightweight user interface API.
Prerequisite

To learn Java, you must have the basic knowledge of C/C++ programming language.
Audience

Our Java programming tutorial is designed to help beginners and professionals.
Problem

We assure that you will not find any problem in this Java tutorial. However, if there is any mistake, please post the problem in the contact form.


Do You Know?

    What is the difference between JRE and JVM?
    What is the purpose of JIT compiler?
    Can we save the java source file without any name?
    Why java uses the concept of Unicode system?

What will we learn in Basics of Java?

    History of Java
    Features of Java
    Hello Java Program
    Program Internal
    How to set path?
    Difference between JDK,JRE and JVM
    Internal Details of JVM
    Variable and Data Type
    Unicode System
    Operators

